# Certifier API Test Sample for Open Enclave on SGX

## Introduction

This is a sample SGX application developed with the Open Enclave SDK. It tests
basic Certifier APIs and does not include the Certifier service components. It
serves the purpose of helping you setup the Open Enclave SGX development
environment for the Certifier.

The Open Enclave SDK is a hardware-agnostic open source library for developing
applications that utilize Hardware-based Trusted Execution Environments, also
known as Enclaves. [Open Enclave
SDK](https://github.com/openenclave/openenclave).

## Instructions for building and running the test

$CERTIFIER_PROTOTYPE is the top level directory for the certifier repository.
export CERTIFIER_PROTOTYPE=~/src/github.com/jlmucb/crypto/v2/certifier-framework-for-confidential-computing

Step 1: Setup Open Enclave SDK with SGX

Follow instructions in [Open Enclave SDK Getting Started]
(https://github.com/openenclave/openenclave/tree/master/docs/GettingStartedDocs)
to have SGX configured and the SDKs installed on your development machine.

More specifically, follow the instructions
[here](https://github.com/openenclave/openenclave/blob/master/docs/GettingStartedDocs/install_oe_sdk-Ubuntu_20.04.md)
to setup Intel SDK/Driver, before installing the Open Enclave SDK. After this
is done successfully, run the [Open Enclave SDK Attestation
Example](https://github.com/openenclave/openenclave/blob/master/samples/attestation/README.md)
to verify that everything is configured correctly.

We tested Open Enclave 0.17 and 0.18 using clang-10.

Step 2a: Build the Certifier Utilities

    cd $CERTIFIER_PROTOTYPE
    cd utilities
    make -f cert_utility.mak
    make -f policy_utilities.mak

The bare-minimum required for this sample application work is to build the
measurement_init utility:

    cd $CERTIFIER_PROTOTYPE
    cd utilities
    make -f cert_utility.mak measurement_init.exe

Step 2b: Build the Open Enclave protobuf

The Certifier API requires protobuf. For the SGX enclave environment, we a
statically compiled protobuf archive to be built into the enclave binary.
Additionally, the matching protoc command needs to be available on the
development host.

If you do not see these and the headers inside the
$(CERTIFIER_PROTOTYPE)/openenclave_test/protobufs-bin directory, you will need
to build and install them first. When the Open Enclave SDK integrates protobuf
in the future, we will be able to live without these.

$(OE_SOURCE) is the Open Enclave SDK source directory
$(OE_BIN) is the Open Enclave SDK installation directory
$(PROTO_BIN) is the protobuf installation directory

Step 2b.1: Download protobuf

Download the protobuf versions you want from
https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf/releases

Step 2b.2: Build protobuf for the development host (e.g., Ubuntu 20.04)

    git clone https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf.git
    cd protobuf
    git submodule update --init --recursive
    ./autogen.sh
    ./configure --prefix=$(PROTO_BIN) --disable-shared CC=clang-10 CXX=clang++10
    make
    make check
    make install

The protobuf libraries in the installation directory is built for the host
after this step and not ready for the enclave. We need to rebuild the libraries
for the enclave environment.

Step 2b.3: Rebuild protobuf libraries for the enclave

    cd protobuf
    export LIBCXX_LIBRARY_DIR=$(OE_BIN)/share/pkgconfig/../../lib/openenclave/enclave
    export LIBCXX_SOURCE_DIR=$(OE_SOURCE)/3rdparty/libcxx/libcxx
    ./configure --prefix=$(PROTO_BIN) --disable-shared CC=clang-10 CXX=clang++-10 \
    CXXFLAGS="-c -nostdinc++ -nostdlib++ -m64 -fPIE -ftls-model=local-exec -fvisibility=hidden \
    -fstack-protector-strong -fno-omit-frame-pointer -ffunction-sections -fdata-sections -mllvm \
    -x86-speculative-load-hardening \
    -I$(OE_BIN)/share/pkgconfig/../../include/openenclave/3rdparty/libcxx \
    -I$(OE_BIN)/share/pkgconfig/../../include/openenclave/3rdparty/libc \
    -I$(OE_BIN)/share/pkgconfig/../../include/openenclave/3rdparty \
    -I$(OE_BIN)/share/pkgconfig/../../include" \
    LDFLAGS="-nostdinc++ -nostdlib++ -nodefaultlibs -nostartfiles -Wl,--no-undefined -Wl,-Bstatic \
    -Wl,-Bsymbolic -Wl,--export-dynamic -Wl,-pie -Wl,--build-id -Wl,-z,noexecstack -Wl,-z,now -Wl,\
    -gc-sections -L${LIBCXX_LIBRARY_DIR} -Wl,-rpath,${LIBCXX_LIBRARY_DIR} -loelibcxx"
    make

You will get some warnings and the protoc tool generated will not be usable on
your development host. You SHOULD NOT DO make install at this point. Instead
copy the generated archives to $(PROTO_BIN) manually.

    cp protobuf/src/.libs/libprotobuf.a $(PROTO_BIN)/lib/
    cp protobuf/src/.libs/libprotobuf-lite.a $(PROTO_BIN)/lib/

Step 2b.4: Replace protobufs-bin in openenclave_test

    cd $CERTIFIER_PROTOTYPE
    cd openenclave_test
    rm -rf protobufs-bin
    cp -r $(PROTO_BIN) ./protobufs-bin

Step 3: Build the Certifier API Test Sample Application

    cd $CERTIFIER_PROTOTYPE
    cd openenclave_test
    make

The build will produce the untrusted and trusted (enclave) part binaries along
with a signed enclave binary called enclave.signed in the enclave directory
ready for SGX. Now, dump the enclave measurement (mrenclave) using the
following command:

    cd $CERTIFIER_PROTOTYPE
    cd openenclave_test
    make dump_mrenclave

The output will look something like the following:

    oesign dump --enclave-image=./enclave/enclave.signed

    === Entry point:
    name=_start
    address=0x0000000018e77c

    === SGX Enclave Properties:
    product_id=1
    security_version=1
    debug=1
    xfrm=0000000000000000
    num_heap_pages=1024
    num_stack_pages=1024
    num_tcs=2
    mrenclave=c33b590742e20c440b9d474cf64aaa2db483d3e9f5aba95122c8e03ff1dca5f1
    mrsigner=...
    signature=...

Notice the line that starts with mrenclave. Copy the hex string after the =
sign and configure the expected measurement of the enclave for the Certifier by
issuing the following command:

    measurement_init.exe --mrenclave=c33b590742e20c440b9d474cf64aaa2db483d3e9f5aba95122c8e03ff1dca5f1 --out_file=/tmp/binary_trusted_measurements_file.bin

measurement_init.exe is the utility you built in Step 2. A file containing the
trusted measurement of the enclave will be saved to the /tmp directory on your
development machine. Notice that you will need to redo this every time you
modified and recompiled the enclave because the expected measurement of the
enclave will change afterwards.

Step 4: Run the Certifier API Test Sample Application

To run the application, simply do:

    cd $CERTIFIER_PROTOTYPE
    cd openenclave_test
    make run

You should get the results similar to the following:

    make run
    host/host enclave/enclave.signed
    Initializing certifier

    Calling certifier_test_sim_certify
    Test succeeded!

    Calling certifier_test_local_certify
    Test succeeded!

    Calling certifier_test_seal
    Test succeeded!
